AKS SPEC (#27)
entropyxyz/api_key_tdx: SPEC.md

Users submit and query data to/from the AKS nodes using standard http requests with encrypted payloads.

_TODO: HTTP requests? Or websockets? Or either? The untrusted cloud operator can inspect the traffic of course, and can spy on metdata (like user's IP). Or how does this work? Is the client-to-AKS transport mechanism specc'd somewhere?_

The relevant RPC endpoints exposed by the AKS are:

- `POST /secret?data=&acl=`: adds a new secret with an appropriate ACL; returns a `secret_id`.
- `PUT /secret?id=&data=&acl`: updates the secret and/or ACL with secret_id `id`.
- `DELETE /secret?id`: deletes the secret with secret_id `id`.
- `GET /make-request?id=&remote-url=&verb=&payload=`: instructs the AKS to make a remote API call to `remote-url` using the http verb `verb` and the secret matching the `id` to send the payload in `payload`.

*NOTE*: `secret_id`s should be unique and **random**, given that knowledge of a `secret_id` allows anyone to make remote API calls on behalf of the user.

> _TODO: Use correct endpoints, from the spec doc._

Reviewer: I have updated them above - the PUT and DELETE are not yet implemented so i left them as they are

Author: I think `deploy-api-key` must return a `secret_id` though right? And `make-request` take an `id` param so that a user can upload many different secrets yeah?

> _TODO: Describe the ACL format and how it works in detail._

Reviewer: The access control is currently just a signature provided by the user. There is not (yet) way to allow multiple users to access the same API key.

And since we use sr25519, it is not currently possible to use a signature made by the entropy network and leverage programs to do access control. I'm not sure if we would want that anyway, as it will add several seconds onto the time it takes to get a response. Probably we are going to end up re-implementing some way of doing access control lists here.

_TODO: Can users provide any `remote-url` like this or is it limited to a set of whitelisted URLs? Stored where? In the ACL? Or separate?_

> ~~All calls to the AKS from the outside are signed and contain counter measures to replay attacks (likely a block number and/or a random nonce). The API responses are encrypted to the end user's public key before they are send back outside the AKS.~~

Reviewer: Currently we are using timestamp checks.  Which means we rely on client and sever to have accurate clocks (which these days is not so unreasonable to assume).

In `entropy-tss` we usually use block number, and we may well end up doing that here.  But we have had a lot of issues with automated tests and block number checks.

This is an argument for https - the TLS handshake means we don't need to worry about replay attacks.

> The API responses are encrypted to the end user's public key before they are send back outside the AKS.

Currently they are just sent clear.  Again, with https we would not need to implement this.

_TODO: None of the above is correct I believe?_

All calls to the AKS contain counter measures to replay attacks, to stop a snooping cloud operator from recording traffic and replaying it at will. *TODO: spec counter measures in detail.*

_TODO: Spec the replay attack counter measures in detail. Given this all happens outside the chain, using the block number is pointless._

> **NOTE:** Users must do local key management and keep track of their `secret_id`s. A stolen `secret_id` can be used by anyone to execute remote API calls, so it's essentially equivalent to stealing the API key in the first place. That is an important matter worthy of its own separate discussion.

Reviewer: There are no secret ids - secrets are associated with public key of user plus url of service.

```suggestion
**NOTE:** Users must do local key management and keep track of their secret signing key. A stolen secret key can be used by anyone to execute remote API calls, so it's essentially equivalent to stealing the API key in the first place. That is an important matter worthy of its own separate discussion.
```

## What do AKS nodes store?

To support the above scenario, the AKS nodes must keep the following data:

- User secrets

> - User ACL, one for each remote rpc

Reviewer: User public keys and service hostnames

### State change propagation

State change syncronization is a big topic and there are many solutions out there, varying greatly in complexity and safety/resilience guarantees offered. What we suggest here is a sketch of "the simplest thing that can work".

- Use a "XOR proximity" metric to assign "neighbours" to AKS nodes; each AKS node tries to find `n` such neighbours, where `n` is a system parameter choosen to work well with the actual/expected number of AKS nodes.
- The lookup key is the hash of the `secret` + `pubkey` + `baseURL` (and possibly the `ACL` as well, TBD)
- When users look for an AKS node to deploy a secret to, they calculate the lookup key and choose the AKS node that is "closest".
- AKS nodes propagate own state updates to its `n` closest neighbours.
- AKS nodes propagate state updates received from other AKS nodes to `n-1` neighbours (i.e. to all except the one they received the update from)
- Eventually all nodes will have received the update and stop propagating it.

> _TODO: Not convinced that the above is actually the simplest possible protocol that can work!_

Reviewer: Agree, its definitely not the simplest.
